The Joe Rogan experience.
Um, yeah, I walked in about 180 1. Um,
and like for the Tony five was 180 4. So, you know.
The Tony fight was a mess because of the staff, right? Like, yeah.
You guys have a decision where you had to make, whether you're not,
you're going to pull out of the fight.
Yeah. I mean, I tried my best to keep it from everybody, so,
and I kind of succeeded in it. Um, I mean really the only one, something over.
It at the weigh-ins right? Yeah. Put a.
Makeup, Susie, the girl, she, uh, she did it for me, but you know,
that really just made the, the, the, the weight cut and in my body much worse.
I mean, I,
I don't really look at the fight and say that Tony's a dog and I kind of give
that to him. You know, I kind of, uh, uh,
I learned a lot about myself from Nephite Eva. Uh,
and then fights after that. I've had a lot of tough weight cuts going into him.
So I don't really, uh, I don't really put too much.
At first round though, man, before you got tired,
you had a mounted and that was a, it was a big first round for you.
Yeah. Yeah, but that was one of the fights where I,
if I would've listened to Robin that fight,
I would already be the champion and then everything would look different,
you know, I would already fought McGregor by now. Uh,
and then the whole sport would have looked different, I think. Uh,
but I didn't listen to him and I, what did.
He tell you that you didn't listen to? He.
Tried to tell me to calm down.
Like when you see me like walk out for that fight, I was on,
I wouldn't even like on 10, I was on 12.
I was on 12 from the morning that I woke up until,
you know, until the fight ended. Uh,
and that adrenaline pumping that. I mean, I,
I never felt like that since I probably don't.
I don't really want to feel like that either. Uh, I was,
when I stepped into the arena that night, you know,
we get there about two hours before the fight actually is going on.
I was ready to fight. And when I was warming up, I was ready to fight.
I was fighting people in the bag. There was no warmup. There was no warmup.
I was fighting.
No. How, how much did that staff with you?
I think it, it put me into a state of fight or flight.
Because you were compromised.
For days before, you know, not even just that, that, you know,
the day of the fight, put me in that state for,
for days before where it made the weight cut. Uh,
so horrible, like,
because my body is just trying to hold on to everything and trying to, you know,
when I woke up that morning, I was about 1 62.
I woke up at 5:00 AM weigh-ins or at 9:00 AM. I had to be 1 55.
So I've got seven pounds to, to cut, which is okay, you know,
it's not too bad. Cut about nine pounds of the day before.
I'm a little dehydrate, I'm a little, you know, I'm a little already worn, but,
uh, as the way cut was going, you know,
we got till about eight o'clock and I had only cut a pound and a half.
So I still 1 61 in a half,
something at eight o'clock weigh-ins or at nine o'clock to the point where we
gotta do something.
So they start to put me in the bathtub just because we do most of our
cuts in the bath. You know, when you, when you're in a high humidity,
you you're going to cut more water weight, or you're going to sweat more. Uh,
and water is obviously a hundred percent humidity. Um,
so they start throwing bull and hot water.
Cause we couldn't get the water hot enough to make me sweat more Christ.
So we just take a kettles of, of hot water and just pouring it on me. Uh,
and you know,
doctors are in and out twin 12 people in and out of the hotel room to make sure
I'm okay. And I make sure that I could cut the weight.
And I was just in such a, like an adrenaline
like on 10 I'm like, just get up, you know, I'm screaming at everybody.
I literally, I was in the tub. I was crying like why?
But to me, I was like,
there's no way I'm not making this weight and six
pounds. And about an hour, maybe two hours,
cause like weighed in about nine o'clock or so, uh, or, I mean, uh, about 9 30,
10 or so, um, six pounds in two hours, this,
it was brutal, but I think that just kept me as such a,
such a tin on my adrenaline level.
I never really understood how to bring it back down, you know,
and Rob would try and talk to me and try and tell me like, Hey, calm down, like,
you know, take a few deep breaths. And I'm like, yeah, yeah, I'm breathing,
whatever I'm listening. I wasn't listening to it. So.
Now when did you know you had staff?
Uh, the Sunday, the Sunday before?
Yeah. Oh geez. So you had a whole week to think about it almost.
Yeah. I mean, I think about it like that as, just to be honest with you,
which is notice I noticed like a little, uh,
just the bump and it,
and it got like really big and I thought a spider had bit me or something. Um,
and you know, for, for Sunday I just kinda, you know, I didn't think about it.
I wasn't trained in that day. So it was nothing when I went in on Monday, uh,
Dewey was actually the one, uh, Dewey Cooper, my striking coach.
He was the one that kinda noticed it. And he was like, Hey, is that all right?
And you know, uh, and then Rob, when he took a look at it, he was like, oh yeah,
that's that's staff for sure. And, uh, you know, I just kinda, what did.
When that happens, if you can't, if you're not,
you decided not to take antibiotics. Yeah. Yeah. So what do you do?
I roughed it.
I was just roughed it. You didn't put anything topical on it or was there,
was there a scratch that got infected?
I honestly have no idea when I just, when I woke up on Sunday, it was just,
was sticking out of my chest till about, but right here in it,
I thought it was a spider bite or something, you know,
I had never really had staff like that before. Um, I knew guys who had had it,
especially through college wrestling, uh,
those rooms are just so dirty and filthy, um, that I seen other people with it,
but it didn't look like that. You know what I mean? You normally look like a,
uh, uh, um, you know,
you have an open wound or something and then that'll get yellow and pissy and
disgusting, but this was underneath my skin.
So it was not like open moon or anything. Um, when I talked to doctors,
they said it was just on the layer of muscle, I guess, or, or something. Um,
and kind of sticking out from it. Um,
at the time I didn't really know what that meant. Like he said,
it was staff and I was like, okay, you know, like I still feel good.
Like I can still move around. Like we hit pads that day. I've still felt good.
You know, I can, I was like, I'm showing up to fight. You know, I,
when I saw that.
Anything on it or there was no.
So for six days you just trained and did everything with that staff.
And that was kind of like the last thing on my mind, even, you know,
I was there to fight when I, when I, when I signed the contract,
I I'm showing up to the fight. Like I haven't pulled out of a fight yet. Uh,
when I say I'm gonna do something, I'm, I'm going, I'm gonna go ahead and do it.
Regardless of if my leg was halfway falling off, it's like,
I still got another one. You know, I still got five more toes on the other leg,
so.
Right. But looking back on it now,
you happy that you made the decision that you made. Oh yeah.
It wasn't smart, but you know.
But you would have done it again tomorrow.
Yeah, no doubt, no doubt. I mean, first world title fight, you know.
Do you do anything to prevent staff?
Do you use like defense soap or anything like that?
Yeah. Ever since you actually hooked me up with, uh, with those guys, a defense,
uh, glad you did that. Yeah. They, they been great. So, uh, I shot the guy.
Yeah.
Yeah. That's taco.
There also. So not just take way more preventive, uh, uh, yeah,
I haven't had anything flare up on me since, uh, probiotics here and there,
here, and they're a good.
Way to prevent that as well. It also helps prevent ringworm.
Um, I try, I try my best to eat as many natural foods, uh,
and especially like a lot of yogurts and, and Kiefer is one of them. Cool. Uh,
so I, you know, I try and stay on top of it and, uh, at least I, I not,
no flare up has been happening to since, you know,
I shower every time I make sure like, I'm on top of it.
I make sure I break my soap and I shower. Cause.
You don't want that again. It's mostly the.
The, you know, yeah, the fight didn't go my way or whatever. Uh,
but it was about three or four weeks after that flight where I was just,
uh, I was wrecked. I was just in a worst shape ever. And when, when it,
when I got on those antibiotics, I just kills.
People. Styling.
Kills people.
It was terrible. People would ignore staff. I want to scream at them. I'm like,
listen, man, you could die this. It seems like you just got an infection,
but that gets systemic. It gets in your bloodstream and you could die.
One of my friend,
Brian Callan's friend's wife died and he went over to the house and she was
like, you know, some people get crazy with holistic stuff. Oh,
she's just going to try natural healing. And he's like, get her, do a doctor.
He's like her gums were bleeding. Jesus. Yeah.
It had gotten systemic and she wound up dying. Geez. Yeah, man from staff,
I've had it twice. And uh, the first time I had it,
I see when I got on the antibiotics, first of all the antibiotics kick your.
The fact that Luke Rockhold won the title against Chris Weidman while he was
on antibiotics shows you what a stud that guy is. Yeah.
Cause that kicks your. He had, he had staff when he fought Weidman.
Yeah, he was.
Wrecked. Right.
I know those antibiotics mess you up bad.
I've done them once for like a sore throat or, or something, uh, earlier, um,
a couple of years ago and it just wrecked me bad.
So I knew like going into that fight, I was like,
I'd rather have the staff than the antibiotics. I was like,
I haven't a stabbed before I've had the antibodies.
I know what they're going to do to me. So I was thinking.
That when you fought and afterwards talking to you about,
I think you probably made the right move to not do antibiotics,
but I don't know, I'm not a doctor, but I was thinking that,
that it just weakens you so much.
Just you, you live and learn from these things. I think, you know, it's,
it's just part of the journey. And before I would have like that,
where I wanted everything to be perfect or I wanted everything to kind of be the
way I saw it, you know, especially like starting out the career,
like everybody wants to be Floyd and when you 50 and oh, and, and it's just,
you're not getting touched and it's just easy. Uh,
but then when you take a look back at that and you don't see like how many
amateur fights Floyd had, you know, he's got his dad who fought,
he's got his uncles and his whole family been fighting.
So he's learned from all their mistakes and all their losses and everything, uh,
to where it's like,
I'm the first one in my family to even ever think about this.
So you're going to bump your head here and there. And it just is what it is,
you know?
And Paris one is the thief of joy. Yeah. Yes. You can't, you can't do that.
You got to just think about being the best that you can. It.
Is hard. It's very.
Hard. You'd be inspired by people,
but by comparing yourself to their path and everybody's got a different path,
everyone's got different genetics, right?
Some people are just better at certain things. Some people are,
some people struggle with certain aspects of the sport. I mean, that's, it's,
everyone's got their own individual challenge. I mean,
it's one of the things that's so interesting about it is watching people adapt
and grow.